# Fire Alarm System
## Video link:[Fire Alarm System Project by Interfacing Arduino with Temperature & Gas Sensor || TinkerCAD Projects](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwwI4R_97DI&list=PLWqnlHhsmcI4eBDLBtaZs16XZq0WL1SlP&index=2)

### Components
1. Arduino Uno R3 (x1)
2. Temperature Sensor [TMP36] (x1)
3. Gas Sensor (x1)
4. Piezo (x1)
5. Red LED (x1)
6. 1 kΩ Resistor (x2)

### Temperature Sensor-TMP36
Temperature Sensor gives an analog output based on the instantaneous temperature value. This analog output is proportional to the instantaneous input.

- Key Features
  - Temperature range: –40°C to +125°C
  - Output voltage: Analog, directly proportional to temperature
  - Accuracy: ±1°C at 25°C
  - Low voltage operation: 2.7V to 5.5V
  - Self-calibrated: No need for external calibration
  - Current draw: ~50 μA (very low power)

- Working Principle
  - The TMP36 outputs a voltage that changes linearly with temperature.
  - The output at 25°C is typically 750 mV.
  - The scale factor is 10 mV/°C.

 - Formula

   Temperature (°C)=(V out−500 mV)/10

   where V out is the sensor output voltage in millivolts.


- Typical Pinout:
  - Vcc (2.7V to 5.5V)
  - Vout (Analog output voltage)
  - GND (Ground)


### Gas Sensor
The gas sensor is used to measure the concentration or presence of gas in the atmosphere. It is also used to detect smoke in the air. Based on the gas, a potential difference is generated by changing the resistance of the material present inside the sensor. The output is measure in terms of Voltage.

- Working Principle
  - Analog output: Voltage varies with gas concentration.
  - Digital output: Some modules include a comparator to give HIGH/LOW signal when gas exceeds a set threshold.
  - They have a preheat time (24–48 hours for calibration for best results, but can work after a few minutes).
  - Calibration: MQ sensors are not super accurate, but good for detecting presence/absence or relative changes in gas levels.
  - Environment: Sensitive to humidity and temperature changes.

- Typical Pinout
  - Vcc (5V)
  - GND
  - AO (Analog output)
  - DO (Digital output, optional — HIGH/LOW based on threshold)






